Custom XCom backend tutorial (#1666)
astronomer/docs: learn/custom-xcom-backends-tutorial.md

    values={[
        {label: 'AWS S3', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP Cloud Storage', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure Blob Storage', value: 'azure'},
        {label: 'MinIO (local)', value: 'local'}
    ]}>
<TabItem value="aws">

To give Airflow access to your S3 bucket you need to define an [Airflow connection](connections.md). 

1. In the Airflow UI go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and create a new a connection (**+**) with the Connection Type `Amazon Web Service`. Provide the AWS Access Key ID and AWS Secret Access Key from the IAM user you created in [Step 2](#step-2-set-up-your-object-storage-account). The screenshot below shows the connection using the Connection ID `s3_xcom_backend_conn`.

    ![Airflow Connection to S3](/img/guides/xcom_backend_aws_connection.png)

2. Test and save your connection.

:::tip

It is also possible to define a [connection using environment variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#define-connections-with-environment-variables).

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

To give Airflow access to your GCS bucket you need to define an [Airflow connection](connections.md). 

> 1. In the Airflow UI go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and create a new a connection (**+**) with the Connection Type `Google Cloud`. Provide the name of your project (`custom-xcom-backend-example`). Open the JSON file with the credentials you downloaded in [Step 2](#step-2-set-up-your-object-storage-account) and copy paste it in full into the field `Keyfile JSON`. The screenshot below shows the connection using the Connection ID `gcs_xcom_backend_conn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Airflow UI go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and create a new a connection (**+**) with the Connection Type `Google Cloud`. Provide the name of your project (`custom-xcom-backend-example`). Open the JSON file with the credentials you downloaded in [Step 2](?tab=gcp#step-2-set-up-your-object-storage-account) and copy paste it in full into the field `Keyfile JSON`. The following screenshot shows how you would configure a connection with the ID `gcs_xcom_backend_conn`.
```

    ![Airflow Connection to GCS bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_connection.png)

2. Test and save your connection.

> :::tip
> 
> It is also possible to define a [connection using environment variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#define-connections-with-environment-variables).
> 
> :::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="azure">

To give Airflow access to your Azure Blob Storage container you need to define an [Airflow connection](connections.md).

> 1. In the Airflow UI go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and create a new a connection (**+**) with the Connection Type `Azure Blob Storage`. Provide the full Blob SAS URL to the `SAS Token` field. The screenshot below shows the connection using the Connection ID `azure_xcom_backend_conn`.

Reviewer: Same edits here as in GCP

    ![Airflow Connection to Azure Blob Storage container](/img/guides/xcom_backend_azure_connection.png)

2. Test and save your connection.

> :::tip
> 
> It is also possible to define a [connection using environment variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#define-connections-with-environment-variables).
> 
> :::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="local">

> To give Airflow access to your MinIO bucket you will need to use the credentials created in [Step 2](#step-2-set-up-your-object-storage-account). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give Airflow access to your MinIO bucket you will need to use the credentials created in [Step 2](?tab=local#step-2-set-up-your-object-storage-account). 
```

> In your Astro project's `.env` file set the following environment variables. You may need to adjust your `MINIO_IP` if you have chosen a custom API port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Astro project's `.env` file set the following environment variables. You may need to adjust your `MINIO_IP` if you have a custom API port.
```

```text
MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=<your access key>
MINIO_SECRET_KEY=<your secret key>
MINIO_IP=host.docker.internal:9000
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 4: Define a custom XCom class using JSON serialization

For Airflow to use your custom XCom backend, you need to define an XCom backend class which inherits from the `BaseXCom` class.

1. In your Astro project, create a new file in the `include` directory called `xcom_backend_json.py`.

2. Copy paste the following code into the file:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"

>     groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    groupId= "step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization"
```

    - Creates a unique `filename` using the [`uuid` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/uuid.html).
    - Uses the `run_id` and `task_id` from the Airflow context to define the key under which the file will be saved in the object storage.
    - Writes the `value` that is being pushed to XCom to the object storage using JSON serialization.
    - Creates a unique `reference_string` that is written to the Airflow metadata database as a regular XCom.

    The `.deserialize_value()` method:

    - Retrieves the `reference_string` for a given entry (`result`) from the Airflow metadata database using regular XCom.
    - Downloads the JSON file at the key contained in the `reference_string`.
    - Retrieves the information from the JSON file.

4. Open the `.env` file of your Astro Project and add the following line to set your XCom backend to the custom class:

    ```text
    AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND=include.xcom_backend_json.CustomXComBackendJSON
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    If you use Astro, set the this environment variable in your Deployment instead. See [Environment variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables).

```

5. Restart your Airflow instance using `astro dev restart`. 

> :::info
> 
> If you are an Astronomer customer, using this custom XCom backend for your deployment on Astro is easy. After deploying your code, simply set the `AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND` [environment variable on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables).
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> :::tip
> 
> You will need to restart Airflow after making changes to your custom XCom backend configuration for the changes to take effect.
> 
> :::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Repeat of step 5?

1. Create a new file in your `dags` folder named `simple_xcom_dag.py`.

2. Copy and paste the code below into the file.

    ```python
        from airflow.decorators import dag, task
        from pendulum import datetime
        import random

        @dag(
            start_date=datetime(2022, 12, 20),
            schedule="@daily",
            catchup=False
        )
        def simple_xcom_dag():

            @task
            def pick_a_random_number():
                return random.randint(1, 10) # push to XCom

            @task
            def print_a_number(num): # retrieve from XCom
                print(num) 

            print_a_number(pick_a_random_number())

        simple_xcom_dag()
    ```

3. Run the DAG.

4. View the logs of both tasks. The logs will include information about the custom XCom backend. The `print_a_number` task includes the full path to the file stored in the custom backend.

    ![Logs mentioning custom XCom backend](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_simple.png)

5. View the XCom in your local object storage.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"

>     groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    groupId= "step-5-create-and-run-your-dag-to-generate-xcoms"
```

            backend. Prints out pokemon information."""

            for i in pokemon_data_df.index:
                pokemon = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'pokemon']
                xph = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'xp_per_height']
                print(f"{pokemon} has a base xp to height ratio of {xph}")

        print_xp_per_height(calculate_xp_per_height(extract_data()))

    fetch_pokemon_data_dag()
    ```

    The `extract_data` task will push a dictionary to XCom, which will be saved to your blob storage as a JSON file and retrieved by the `calculate_xp_per_height` task. This second task pushes a Pandas dataframe to XCom, which is only possible when using a custom XCom backend with a serialization method for this type of object. The last task, `print_xp_per_height`, retrieves the CSV and recreates the Pandas dataframe before printing out the Pokemon and their base experience to height ratio.

3. View the information about your favorite pokemon in the task log of the `print_xp_per_height` task.

    ![Pokemon Information in logs](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_pokemon.png)

## Overriding additional BaseXCom methods

> In this tutorial we've shown how to add custom logic to the `.serialize_value()` and  `.deserialize_value()` methods. If you want to further expand the functionality for your custom XCom backend, you can override additional methods of the [XCom module](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/xcom/index.html) ([source code](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/models/xcom.py)). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you added custom logic to the `.serialize_value()` and  `.deserialize_value()` methods. If you want to further customize the functionality for your custom XCom backend, you can override methods of the [XCom module](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/xcom/index.html) ([source code](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/models/xcom.py)). 
```

:::

## Time to complete

This tutorial takes approximately 1.5 hours to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- XCom basics. See the [Airflow documentation on XCom](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/xcoms.html).
- Passing data between tasks. See [Passing data between Airflow tasks](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).
- The TaskFlow API. See [the TaskFlow API in Airflow 2.0](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/taskflow-api-airflow-2.0/).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli).
- A local or cloud-based object storage account. This tutorial has instructions for AWS, GCP, Azure, and MinIO.

## Step 1: Create an Astro project

1. Set up Airflow by creating a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir airflow-custom-xcom-example && cd airflow-custom-xcom-example
    $ astro dev init
    ```

> 2. Ensure that the provider of your cloud-based object storage account is installed in your Airflow instance. If you are using the Astro CLI the [Amazon](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/amazon), [Google](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/google) and [Azure](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/microsoft-azure) provider come pre-installed and you do not need to add anything to the `requirements.txt` file. If you are working with a local MinIO instance, add the [`minio` Python package](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/developers/python/minio-py.html) to `requirements.txt`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Ensure that the provider of your cloud-based object storage account is installed in your Airflow instance. If you are using the Astro CLI the [Amazon](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/amazon), [Google](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/google) and [Azure](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/microsoft-azure) provider packages come pre-installed in your Astro runtime image. If you are working with a local MinIO instance, add the [`minio` Python package](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/developers/python/minio-py.html) to your `requirements.txt` file.
```

> 2. Start up Airflow by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Start your Airflow project by running:
```

    ```sh
    $ astro dev start
    ```

## Step 2: Set up your object storage account

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS S3', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP Cloud Storage', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure Blob Storage', value: 'azure'},
        {label: 'MinIO (local)', value: 'local'}
    ]}>
<TabItem value="aws">

> To use an S3 bucket as your custom XCom backend follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to use an S3 bucket as your custom XCom backend:
```

1. Log into your AWS account and [create a new S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/creating-bucket.html) called `s3-xcom-backend-example`. In the creation settings make sure that public access is blocked.

> 2. [Create a new IAM policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html) for Airflow to access your bucket. You can use the JSON configuration below or use AWS' graphical user interface to replicate what you see in the screenshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Create a new IAM policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html) for Airflow to access your bucket. You can use the JSON configuration below or use the AWS GUI to replicate what you see in the screenshot.
```

        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:ReplicateObject",
                    "s3:PutObject",
                    "s3:GetObject",
                    "s3:RestoreObject",
                    "s3:ListBucket",
                    "s3:DeleteObject"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::s3-xcom-backend-example/*",
                    "arn:aws:s3:::s3-xcom-backend-example"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

    ![AWS IAM policy for the XCom backend](/img/guides/xcom_backend_aws_policy.png)

3. Save your policy under the name `AirflowXComBackendAWSS3`. 

4. [Create an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html) called `airflow-xcom` with the AWS credential type `Access key - Programmatic access`. Attach the `AirflowXComBackendAWSS3` policy to this user as shown in the screenshot below. Make sure to save the Access Key ID and the Secret Access Key.

    ![AWS IAM user for the XCom backend](/img/guides/xcom_backend_aws_user.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

> To use a bucket in Google Cloud Storage as your custom XCom backend follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to use a bucket in Google Cloud Storage as your custom XCom backend:
```

1. Log into your Google Cloud account and [create a new project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects) called `custom-xcom-backend-example`.

2. [Create a new bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) called `gcs-xcom-backend-example`.

3. [Create a custom IAM role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles) called `AirflowXComBackendGCS` for Airflow to access your bucket. Assign 6 permissions:

    - storage.buckets.list
    - storage.objects.create
    - storage.objects.delete
    - storage.objects.get
    - storage.objects.list
    - storage.objects.update

    ![GCS IAM role](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_role.png)

4. [Create a new service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) called `airflow-` and grant it access to your project via the `AirflowXComBackendGCS` role.

    ![GCS IAM role](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_service_account.png)

5. [Create a new key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys) for your `airflow-xcom` service account and make sure to download the credentials in JSON format.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="azure">

> To use Azure Blob Storage as your custom XCom backend follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to use Azure Blob Storage as your custom XCom backend:
```

1. Log into your Azure account and if you do not have one, [create a storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create). We recommend disabling public access.

> 2. Within the storage account. [Create a new container](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-porta) called `custom-xcom-backend`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Within the storage account, [create a new container](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-porta) called `custom-xcom-backend`. 
```

3. [Create a shared access token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/Translator/document-translation/how-to-guides/create-sas-tokens?tabs=Containers) for the `custom-xcom-backend` container. 

>     In the dropdown menu for permissions make sure to enable the following permissions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the permissions dropdown menu enable the following permissions:
```

    - Read
    - Add
    - Create
    - Write
    - Delete
    - List
    
    Select the duration the token will be valid and `HTTPS only` for allowed protocols. Provide the IP address of your Airflow instance. If you are running Airflow locally with the Astro CLI, this is the IP address of your computer.

    ![Shared access token](/img/guides/xcom_backend_shared_access_token.png)

4. Click on `Generate SAS token and URL` and copy the Blob SAS URL. This URL contains a secret and you will need it again in [Step 3](#step-3-create-a-connection) of this tutorial.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="local">

> There are several local object storage solutions available to configure as a custom XCom backend. In this tutorial we are going to use MinIO running in Docker. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several local object storage solutions available to configure as a custom XCom backend. In this tutorial we use MinIO running in Docker. 
```
Are there any Airflow docs on supported local storage solutions that we could link to here? Or when we say "several solutions available" do we just mean that you can use any local storage option and multiple options exist generally? If the latter then no need to change anything.

1. [Start a MinIO container](https://min.io/docs/minio/container/index.html). 

> 2. Go to `http://127.0.0.1:9090/`, log in and create a new bucket called `custom-xcom-backend`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to `http://127.0.0.1:9090/`, log in, and create a new bucket called `custom-xcom-backend`.
```

    @staticmethod
    def deserialize_value(result):
        # retrieve the relevant reference string from the metadata database
        reference_string = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result=result)

        # retrieve the key from the reference string 
        minio_key = reference_string.replace(CustomXComBackendJSON.PREFIX, "")

        # create the MinIO client with the credentials stored as env variables
        client = Minio(
            os.environ["MINIO_IP"],
            os.environ["MINIO_ACCESS_KEY"],
            os.environ["MINIO_SECRET_KEY"],
            secure=False
        )

        # get the object from the MinIO bucket
        response = client.get_object(
            CustomXComBackendJSON.BUCKET_NAME,
            minio_key
        )

        # return the contents of the retrieved object
        return json.loads(response.read())
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The code above defines a class called `CustomXComBackendJSON`. The class has two methods: `.serialize_value()` defines how to handle the `value` that is pushed to XCom from an Airflow task, and `.deserialize_value()` defines the logic to retrieve information from the XCom backend.

> The `.serialize_value()` method accomplishes the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.serialize_value()` method:
```

- Uses the `run_id` and `task_id` from the Airflow context to define the key under which the file will be saved in the object storage.
- Writes the `value` that is being pushed to XCom to the object storage using JSON serialization.
- Creates a unique `reference_string` that is written to the Airflow metadata database as a regular XCom.

The `.deserialize_value()` method:

- Retrieves the `reference_string` for a given entry (`result`) from the Airflow metadata database using regular XCom.
- Downloads the JSON file at the key contained in the `reference_string`.
- Retrieves the information from the JSON file.

4. Open the `.env` file of your Astro Project and add the following line to set your XCom backend to the custom class:

    ```text
    AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND=include.xcom_backend_json.CustomXComBackendJSON
    ```

5. Restart your Airflow instance using `astro dev restart`. 

:::info

If you are an Astronomer customer, using this custom XCom backend for your deployment on Astro is easy. After deploying your code, simply set the `AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND` [environment variable on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables).

:::

:::tip

> Whenever you are making changes to your custom XCom backend configuration you will need to restart Airflow for these changes to take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to restart Airflow after making changes to your custom XCom backend configuration for the changes to take effect.
```

:::

> ## Step 5: Run a simple DAG using XCom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Create and run your DAG to generate XComs
```

To test your custom XCom backend you will run a simple DAG which pushes a random number to your custom XCom backend and then retrieves it again.

1. Create a new file in your `dags` folder named `simple_xcom_dag.py`.

2. Copy and paste the code below into the file.

    ```python
        from airflow.decorators import dag, task
        from pendulum import datetime
        import random

        @dag(
            start_date=datetime(2022, 12, 20),
            schedule="@daily",
            catchup=False
        )
        def simple_xcom_dag():

            @task
            def pick_a_random_number():
                return random.randint(1, 10) # push to XCom

            @task
            def print_a_number(num): # retrieve from XCom
                print(num) 

            print_a_number(pick_a_random_number())

        simple_xcom_dag()
    ```

3. Run the DAG.

> 4. View the logs of both tasks, they include information about the custom XCom backend. The `print_a_number` task includes the full path to the file stored in the custom backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. View the logs of both task. The logs will include information about the custom XCom backend. The `print_a_number` task includes the full path to the file stored in the custom backend.
```

    ![Logs mentioning custom XCom backend](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_simple.png)

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS S3', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP Cloud Storage', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure Blob Storage', value: 'azure'},
        {label: 'MinIO (local)', value: 'local'}
    ]}>

> <TabItem value="aws">

Reviewer 2: Can we put the tabs here under Step 5? And maybe make the text just "View the XCom in your object storage bucket"? It looks a little weird to have the tabs above the step

5. View the XCom in your S3 bucket.

    ![XCom in the S3 bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_S3_json.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

5. View the XCom in your GCS bucket.

    ![XCom in the GCS bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_json.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="azure">

5. View the XCom in your Azure Blob Storage container.

    ![XCom in the blob](/img/guides/xcom_backend_azure_blob.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="local">

5. View the XCom in your MinIO bucket.

    ![XCom in the MinIO bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_minio_file.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Step 6: Create a custom serialization method to handle Pandas dataframes

> A powerful feature of custom XCom backends is the possibility to adjust serialization and deserialization methods to be able to handle objects that cannot be JSON-serialized. In this step you will create a custom XCom backend that can save the contents of a [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) dataframe as a CSV file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A powerful feature of custom XCom backends is the possibility to create custom serialization and deserialization methods. This is particularly useful for handling objects that cannot be JSON-serialized. In this step, you will create a new custom XCom backend that can save the contents of a [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) dataframe as a CSV file.
```

        )

        reference_string = CustomXComBackendPandas.PREFIX + minio_key

        return BaseXCom.serialize_value(value=reference_string)

    @staticmethod
    def deserialize_value(result):
        reference_string = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result=result)
        key = reference_string.replace(CustomXComBackendPandas.PREFIX, "")

        client = Minio(
            os.environ["MINIO_IP"],
            os.environ["MINIO_ACCESS_KEY"],
            os.environ["MINIO_SECRET_KEY"],
            secure=False
        )

        response = client.get_object(
            CustomXComBackendPandas.BUCKET_NAME,
            key
        )

        # added deserialization option to convert a CSV back to a dataframe
        if key.split(".")[-1] == "csv":

            with open("csv_xcom.csv", "w") as f:
                f.write(response.read().decode("utf-8"))
            output = pd.read_csv("csv_xcom.csv")

            # remove the local temporary file
            os.remove("csv_xcom.csv")

        # if the key does not end in 'csv' use JSON deserialization
        else:
            output = json.loads(response.read())

        return output
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> The code above creates a custom XCom backend called `CustomXComBackendPandas` with added logic to convert a Pandas dataframe to a CSV file, which gets written to the S3 bucket and converted back to a Pandas dataframe upon retrieval. If the value passed is not a Pandas dataframe, the `.serialize()` and `.deserialize` methods will use JSON serialization like the custom XCom backend in [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code above creates a custom XCom backend called `CustomXComBackendPandas` with added logic to convert a Pandas dataframe to a CSV file, which gets written to object storage and converted back to a Pandas dataframe upon retrieval. If the value passed is not a Pandas dataframe, the `.serialize()` and `.deserialize` methods will use JSON serialization like the custom XCom backend in [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization).
```

3. In the `.env` file of your Astro project, replace the XCom backend variable to use the newly created `CustomXComBackendPandas`.

    ```text
    AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND=include.xcom_backend_pandas.CustomXComBackendPandas
    ```

> 4. Restart your Airflow instance using `astro dev restart`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Restart your Airflow instance by running `astro dev restart`.
```

:::tip

> You can add custom logic inside your `.serialize()` and `.deserialize()` methods to send XCom to several custom XCom backend solutions, for example based on their object type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add custom logic inside your `.serialize()` and `.deserialize()` methods to send XComs to several custom XCom backend solutions, for example based on their object type.
```

            return {
                "pokemon": [f"{MY_FAVORITE_POKEMON}", f"{MY_OTHER_FAVORITE_POKEMON}"],
                "base_experience": [r1.json()["base_experience"], r2.json()["base_experience"]],
                "height" : [r1.json()["height"], r2.json()["height"]]
            }

        @task
        def calculate_xp_per_height(pokemon_data_dict):
            """Calculates base XP per height and returns a pandas dataframe."""

            df = pd.DataFrame(pokemon_data_dict)

            df["xp_per_height"] = df["base_experience"] / df["height"]

            return df

        @task 
        def print_xp_per_height(pokemon_data_df):
            """Retrieves information from a pandas dataframe in the custom XCom
            backend. Prints out pokemon information."""

            for i in pokemon_data_df.index:
                pokemon = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'pokemon']
                xph = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'xp_per_height']
                print(f"{pokemon} has a base xp to height ratio of {xph}")

        print_xp_per_height(calculate_xp_per_height(extract_data()))

    fetch_pokemon_data_dag()
    ```

>     The `extract_data` task will push a dictionary to XCom, which will be saved to your blob storage as a JSON file and retrieved by the `calculate_xp_per_height` task. This second task pushes a Pandas dataframe to XCom, which is only possible when using a custom XCom backend with a serialization option for this type of object. The last task `print_xp_per_height` retrieves the CSV and recreates the Pandas dataframe before printing out the Pokemon and their base experience to height ratio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `extract_data` task will push a dictionary to XCom, which will be saved to your blob storage as a JSON file and retrieved by the `calculate_xp_per_height` task. This second task pushes a Pandas dataframe to XCom, which is only possible when using a custom XCom backend with a serialization method for this type of object. The last task, `print_xp_per_height`, retrieves the CSV and recreates the Pandas dataframe before printing out the Pokemon and their base experience to height ratio.
```

3. View the information about your favorite pokemon in the task log of the `print_xp_per_height` task.

    ![Pokemon Information in logs](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_pokemon.png)

## Overriding additional BaseXCom methods

In this tutorial we've shown how to add custom logic to the `.serialize_value()` and  `.deserialize_value()` methods. If you want to further expand the functionality for your custom XCom backend, you can override additional methods of the [XCom module](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/xcom/index.html) ([source code](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/models/xcom.py)). 

> A common use case for this is removing stored XCom upon clearing and rerunning a task in both the Airflow metadata database and the custom XCom backend. To do so, the `.clear()` method needs to be overridden to include the removal of the referenced XCom in the custom XCom backend. The code below shows an example of a `.clear()` method that includes the deletion of an XCom stored in a custom S3 backend with the S3XComBackendJSON XCom backend from [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization) of the tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A common use case for this is removing stored XComs upon clearing and rerunning a task in both the Airflow metadata database and the custom XCom backend. To do so, the `.clear()` method needs to be overridden to include the removal of the referenced XCom in the custom XCom backend. The code below shows an example of a `.clear()` method that includes the deletion of an XCom stored in a custom S3 backend with the S3XComBackendJSON XCom backend from [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization) of the tutorial.
```

---
title: 'Set up a custom XComs backend using cloud-based or local object storage'
sidebar_label: 'Set up a custom XComs backend'
id: xcoms-backend-tutorial
description: 'Use this tutorial to learn how to set up a custom XComs backend in AWS, GCP, Azure and MinIO.'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Airflow offers the possibility to use [XComs](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) to pass information between your tasks. By default Airflow uses the [metadata database](airflow-database.md) to store XComs, which works well for local development purposes but can become limiting in a production environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airflow offers the possibility to use [XComs](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) to pass information between your tasks. By default Airflow uses the [metadata database](airflow-database.md) to store XComs, which works well for local development purposes but can become limiting. For production environments, Airflow supports configuring a custom XCom backend. 
```

> In cases where more storage capacity or the option for custom XComs retention policies is needed, you can use cloud-based object storage such as [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), [GCP Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage) or [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/) as a custom XComs backend or write your XComs to a local object storage like a local [MinIO](https://min.io/) instance. This tutorial offers example code for each of these object storage solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to push and pull XComs to and from an external system such as [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), [GCP Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage) or [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/) or [MinIO](https://min.io/) instance. This tutorial offers example code for each of these object storage solutions.
```

> In cases where more storage capacity or the option for custom XComs retention policies is needed, you can use cloud-based object storage such as [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), [GCP Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage) or [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/) as a custom XComs backend or write your XComs to a local object storage like a local [MinIO](https://min.io/) instance. This tutorial offers example code for each of these object storage solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to push and pull XComs to and from an external system such as [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), [GCP Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage) or [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/) or [MinIO](https://min.io/) instance. This tutorial offers example code for each of these object storage solutions.
```

> There are many additional use cases for custom XComs backend solutions, you can learn more about them in the [Best practices](#best-practices) section at the end of this tutorial. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many use cases for custom XCom backend solutions, some of which are listed in the [Best practices](#best-practices) section at the end of this tutorial. 
```
I'm a bit on the fence whether to pull the best practices section into the intro. Would make the intro a bit long, but seems like we may want to describe up front why you would want to use them?

After you complete this tutorial, you'll be able to:

> - Create a custom XComs backend using a cloud-based or local object storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a custom XCom backend using cloud-based or local object storage.
```

> - Create a custom XComs backend using a cloud-based or local object storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a custom XCom backend using cloud-based or local object storage.
```

- Use JSON serialization and deserialization in a custom XComs backend.

> - Add a custom logic to the serialization and deserialization methods to store Pandas dataframes as CSV in your custom XComs backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add custom logic to the serialization and deserialization methods to store Pandas dataframes as CSVs in your custom XCom backend.
```

- Explain best practices of using custom XComs backends.
- Explain the possibility of customizing other BaseXCom methods for extended functionality.

:::caution

> While a custom XComs backend allows you to store virtually unlimited amounts of data as XComs, keep in mind that Airflow was not designed be a data processing framework and you might run into performance issues if you try to pass large amounts of data via XComs. Astronomer recommends to use an external processing framework such as [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org/) to handle heavy data processing and orchestrate the process with Airflow using the [Apache Spark provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/spark).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While a custom XCom backend allows you to store virtually unlimited amounts of data as XComs, your Airflow infrastructure will still need to be configured to support passing large amounts of data between your tasks. For help running Airflow at scale, [reach out to Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/get-started/).
```
Updated this since I think we're moving away from the "Airflow is not a processing framework" idea with the SDK and other tools like that. I still think it's worth adding a caution, but if this seems to salesy we can frame it another way.

:::

:::info

> In this tutorial the TaskFlow API is used to pass information between tasks. Learn more in our [Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md) guide and in the [TaskFlow API in Airflow 2.0 webinar](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/taskflow-api-airflow-2.0/).

Reviewer 2: Do you think we need this separate note if we have the TaskFlow API listed in the assumed knowledge?

:::

## Time to complete

This tutorial takes approximately 1.5 hours to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- XComs basics. See the [Airflow documentation on XComs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/xcoms.html).
- Passing data between tasks. See [Passing data between Airflow tasks](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).
- The TaskFlow API. See [the TaskFlow API in Airflow 2.0](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/taskflow-api-airflow-2.0/).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli).

> - You can follow this tutorial using an AWS, GCP or Azure account. If you want to work locally follow the steps under the `MinIO` tabs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A local or cloud-based object storage account. This tutorial has instructions for AWS, GCP, Azure, and MinIO.
```

> - You can follow this tutorial using an AWS, GCP or Azure account. If you want to work locally follow the steps under the `MinIO` tabs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A local or cloud-based object storage account. This tutorial has instructions for AWS, GCP, Azure, and MinIO.
```

> ## Step 1: Set up your XComs backend 

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should be "Set up your object storage account"? Saying "set up your xcom backend" kind of makes it seem like it's the whole thing :)

2. [Create a new bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) called `gcs-xcom-backend-example`.

3. [Create a custom IAM role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles) called `AirflowXComBackendGCS` for Airflow to access your bucket. Assign 6 permissions:

    - storage.buckets.list
    - storage.objects.create
    - storage.objects.delete
    - storage.objects.get
    - storage.objects.list
    - storage.objects.update

    ![GCS IAM role](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_role.png)

4. [Create a new service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts) called `airflow-xcoms` and grant it access to your project via the `AirflowXComBackendGCS` role.

    ![GCS IAM role](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_service_account.png)

5. [Create a new key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys) for your `airflow-xcoms` service account and make sure to download the credentials in JSON format.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="azure">

To use Azure Blob Storage as your custom XComs backend follow these steps:

> 1. Log into your Azure account and if you do not have one, [create a storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create). We recommend to disable public access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into your Azure account and if you do not have one, [create a storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create). We recommend disabling public access.
```

> 1. Log into your Azure account and if you do not have one, [create a storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create). We recommend to disable public access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into your Azure account and if you do not have one, [create a storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create). We recommend disabling public access.
```

2. Within the storage account. [Create a new container](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-porta) called `custom-xcom-backend`. 

> 3. [Create a shared access token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/Translator/document-translation/how-to-guides/create-sas-tokens?tabs=Containers) for the `custom-xcom-backend` container. In the dropdown menu for permissions make sure to enable: Read, Add, Create, Write, Delete and List. Select the duration during which the token will be valid and `HTTPS only` for allowed protocols. Provide the IP address of your Airflow instance. If you are running Airflow locally with the Astro CLI this is the IP address of your computer.

Reviewer 2: The permissions should probably be in a bulleted list like they are in the GCS example

> 3. [Create a shared access token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/Translator/document-translation/how-to-guides/create-sas-tokens?tabs=Containers) for the `custom-xcom-backend` container. In the dropdown menu for permissions make sure to enable: Read, Add, Create, Write, Delete and List. Select the duration during which the token will be valid and `HTTPS only` for allowed protocols. Provide the IP address of your Airflow instance. If you are running Airflow locally with the Astro CLI this is the IP address of your computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. [Create a shared access token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/Translator/document-translation/how-to-guides/create-sas-tokens?tabs=Containers) for the `custom-xcom-backend` container. In the dropdown menu for permissions make sure to enable: Read, Add, Create, Write, Delete and List. Select the duration the token will be valid and `HTTPS only` for allowed protocols. Provide the IP address of your Airflow instance. If you are running Airflow locally with the Astro CLI, this is the IP address of your computer.
```
Seems a little weird to mention the Airflow instance before the step in which it's created, but I don't have a great suggestion unless we swap Steps 1 and 2.

1. In the Airflow UI go to **Admin** -> **Connections** and create a new a connection (**+**) with the Connection Type `Azure Blob Storage`. Provide the full Blob SAS URL to the `SAS Token` field. The screenshot below shows the connection using the Connection ID `azure_xcoms_backend_conn`.

    ![Airflow Connection to Azure Blob Storage container](/img/guides/xcom_backend_azure_connection.png)

2. Test and save your connection.

:::tip

It is also possible to define a [connection using environment variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#define-connections-with-environment-variables).

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="local">

To give Airflow access to your MinIO bucket you will need to use the credentials created in [Step 1](#step-1-set-up-your-xcoms-backend). 

1. In your Astro project's `.env` file set the following environment variables. You may need to adjust your `MINIO_IP` if you have chosen a custom API port.

    ```text
    MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=<your access key>
    MINIO_SECRET_KEY=<your secret key>
    MINIO_IP=host.docker.internal:9000
    ```

> 2. In order to be able to use the `minio` Python package in Airflow, add it to the `requirements.txt` file of your Astro project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In order to be able to use the `minio` Python package in Airflow, add it to the `requirements.txt` file of your Astro project.
```
This seems a little out of place since it's not part of the connection, particularly since it requires restarting the Airflow instance. Maybe it could be part of Step 2 as an optional sub-step if working with a local backend (and then could say something like "if you are working with a cloud storage backend, the required packages are already included in Astro runtime" or something like that).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Step 4: Define a custom XCom class using JSON serialization

Reviewer 2: Since the text for each of these describing the hook is the same, can we put the tabs just in sub-step 2 for the code, and leave the rest outside of the tabs?

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think having more general language is fine

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS S3', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP Cloud Storage', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure Blob Storage', value: 'azure'},
        {label: 'MinIO (local)', value: 'local'}
    ]}>
<TabItem value="aws">

> For Airflow to be able to use your custom XComs backend it is necessary to define an XCom backend class which inherits from the `BaseXCom` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Airflow to use your custom XCom backend, you need to define an XCom backend class which inherits from the `BaseXCom` class.
```

> 1. In your Astro project create a new file in the `include` directory called `s3_xcom_backend_json.py`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your Astro project, create a new file in the `include` directory called `s3_xcom_backend_json.py`.
```

            # Airflow metadata database (like a regular XCom)
            return BaseXCom.serialize_value(value=reference_string)

        @staticmethod
        def deserialize_value(result):
            # retrieve the relevant reference string from the metadata database
            reference_string = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result=result)
            
            # create the S3 connection using the S3Hook and recreate the S3 key
            hook = S3Hook(aws_conn_id="s3_xcom_backend_conn")
            key = reference_string.replace(S3XComBackendJSON.PREFIX, "")

            # download the JSON file found at the location described by the 
            # reference string to a temporary local folder
            filename = hook.download_file(
                key=key,
                bucket_name=S3XComBackendJSON.BUCKET_NAME,
                local_path="/tmp"
            )

            # load the content of the local JSON file and return it to be used by
            # the operator
            with open(filename, 'r') as f:
                output = json.load(f)

            # remove the local temporary JSON file
            os.remove(filename)

            return output
    ```

>     The code above defines a class called `S3XComBackendJSON`. The class has two methods: `.serialize_value()` defines how the `value` that is pushed to XComs from an Airflow task is handled, while `.deserialize_value()` contains the logic to retrieve information from the XComs backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The code above defines a class called `S3XComBackendJSON`. The class has two methods: `.serialize_value()` defines how to handle the `value` that is pushed to XCom from an Airflow task, and `.deserialize_value()` defines the logic to retrieve information from the XCom backend.
```

    - Creates a unique `filename` using the [`uuid` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/uuid.html).
    - Uses the `run_id` and `task_id` from the Airflow context to define the `minio_key` under which the file will be saved in the bucket.
    - Converts the `value` that is being pushed to XComs to a BytesIO object.
    - Uploads the BytesIO object to the MinIO bucket.
    - Creates a `reference_string` using the `minio_key` that is written to the Airflow metadata database as a regular XCom.

    The `.deserialize_value()` method:

    - Retrieves the `reference_string` for a given entry (`result`) from the Airflow metadata database using regular XComs.
    - Downloads the BytesIO object at the `minio_key` contained in the `reference_string`.
    - Reads the information from the BytesIO object.

3. Open the `.env` file of your Astro Project and add the following line to set your XCom backend to the custom class:

    ```text
    AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND=include.minio_xcom_backend_json.MinIOXComBackendJSON
    ```

4. Restart your Airflow instance using `astro dev restart`.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::info

> For Astronomer customers the process to use the same custom XComs backend for your deployment on Astro is easy. After deploying your code, simply set the same `AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND` [environment variable on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an Astronomer customer, using this custom XCom backend for your deployment on Astro is easy. After deploying your code, simply set the `AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND` [environment variable on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables).
```

    ![Logs mentioning custom XComs backend](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_simple.png)

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "github-actions-image-only-deploys"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS S3', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP Cloud Storage', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure Blob Storage', value: 'azure'},
        {label: 'MinIO (local)', value: 'local'}
    ]}>
<TabItem value="aws">

5. View the XCom in your S3 bucket.

    ![XComs in the S3 bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_S3_json.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

5. View the XCom in your GCS bucket.

    ![XComs in the GCS bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_gcs_json.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="azure">

5. View the XCom in your Azure Blob Storage container.

    ![XComs in the blob](/img/guides/xcom_backend_azure_blob.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="local">

5. View the XCom in your MinIO bucket.

    ![XComs in the MinIO bucket](/img/guides/xcom_backend_minio_file.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Step 6: Create a custom serialization method to handle Pandas dataframes

> <Tabs

Reviewer 2: Same here with the tabs - do we need them for the whole section, or just for the backend code?

            return BaseXCom.serialize_value(value=reference_string)

        @staticmethod
        def deserialize_value(result):
            reference_string = BaseXCom.deserialize_value(result=result)
            key = reference_string.replace(MinIOXComBackendPandas.PREFIX, "")

            client = Minio(
                os.environ["MINIO_IP"],
                os.environ["MINIO_ACCESS_KEY"],
                os.environ["MINIO_SECRET_KEY"],
                secure=False
            )

            response = client.get_object(
                MinIOXComBackendPandas.BUCKET_NAME,
                key
            )

            # added deserialization option to convert a CSV back to a dataframe
            if key.split(".")[-1] == "csv":

                with open("csv_xcom.csv", "w") as f:
                    f.write(response.read().decode("utf-8"))
                output = pd.read_csv("csv_xcom.csv")

                # remove the local temporary file
                os.remove("csv_xcom.csv")

            # if the key does not end in 'csv' use JSON deserialization
            else:
                output = json.loads(response.read())

            return output
    ```

>     The code above creates a custom XComs backend called `MinIOXComBackendPandas` with added logic to convert a Pandas dataframe to a CSV file, which gets written to the S3 bucket and converted back to a Pandas dataframe upon retrieval. If the value passed is not a Pandas dataframe, the `.serialize()` and `.deserialize` methods will use JSON serialization like the custom XComs backend in [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization).

Reviewer 2: Worth adding a note down here somewhere that you can't have multiple backends set up for one Airflow deployment? (I'm assuming you can't....double check me on that though). Just to make it clear that this is a new backend replacing the one created in Step 4 to highlight a slightly different use case.

3. In the `.env` file of your Astro project, change the XCom backend variable to use the newly created `MinIOXComBackendPandas`.

    ```text
    AIRFLOW__CORE__XCOM_BACKEND=include.minio_xcom_backend_pandas.MinIOXComBackendPandas
    ```

4. Restart your Airflow instance using `astro dev restart`.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Step 7: Run a DAG passing Pandas dataframes via XComs

> Test the new custom XComs backend by running a DAG that pushes a Pandas dataframe to and pulls a Pandas dataframe from XComs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test the new custom XCom backend by running a DAG that passes a Pandas between tasks.
```

            return {
                "pokemon": [f"{MY_FAVORITE_POKEMON}", f"{MY_OTHER_FAVORITE_POKEMON}"],
                "base_experience": [r1.json()["base_experience"], r2.json()["base_experience"]],
                "height" : [r1.json()["height"], r2.json()["height"]]
            }

        @task
        def calculate_xp_per_height(pokemon_data_dict):
            """Calculates base XP per height and returns a pandas dataframe."""

            df = pd.DataFrame(pokemon_data_dict)

            df["xp_per_height"] = df["base_experience"] / df["height"]

            return df

        @task 
        def print_xp_per_height(pokemon_data_df):
            """Retrieves information from a pandas dataframe in the custom XComs 
            backend. Prints out pokemon information."""

            for i in pokemon_data_df.index:
                pokemon = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'pokemon']
                xph = pokemon_data_df.loc[i, 'xp_per_height']
                print(f"{pokemon} has a base xp to height ratio of {xph}")

        print_xp_per_height(calculate_xp_per_height(extract_data()))

    fetch_pokemon_data_dag()
    ```

>     The `extract_data` task will push a dictionary to XCom, which will be saved to your blob storage as a JSON file and retrieved by the `calculate_xp_per_height` task. This second task pushes a Pandas dataframe to XComs which is only possible when using a custom XComs backend with a serialization option for this type of object. The last task `print_xp_per_height` retrieves the csv and recreates the Pandas dataframe before printing out the Pokemon and their base experience to height ratio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `extract_data` task will push a dictionary to XCom, which will be saved to your blob storage as a JSON file and retrieved by the `calculate_xp_per_height` task. This second task pushes a Pandas dataframe to XCom, which is only possible when using a custom XCom backend with a serialization option for this type of object. The last task `print_xp_per_height` retrieves the CSV and recreates the Pandas dataframe before printing out the Pokemon and their base experience to height ratio.
```

3. View the information about your favorite pokemon in the task log of the `print_xp_per_height` task.

    ![Pokemon Information in logs](/img/guides/xcom_backend_task_logs_pokemon.png)

> ## Best practices

Reviewer 2: After reading through the whole thing, definitely leaning towards pulling this out into the intro. But if we did decide to leave it here, we should title the section ## Use cases or something like that, since it's not really best practices per se.

Common reasons to use a custom XComs backend are:

- Needing more storage space for XComs than the metadata database can offer.

> - Running a production environment where custom retention, deletion and backup policies for XComs are desired. With a custom XComs backend you do not need to worry about periodically cleaning up the metadata database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running a production environment where custom retention, deletion and backup policies for XComs are desired. With a custom XCom backend you do not need to worry about periodically cleaning up the metadata database.
```

> - The need for custom serialization and deserialization methods. By default Airflow uses JSON serialization which puts limits on the type of data that you can pass via XComs (pickling is available by setting `AIRFLOW__CORE__ENABLE_XCOM_PICKLING=True` but has [known security implications](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The need for custom serialization and deserialization methods. By default Airflow uses JSON serialization, which puts limits on the type of data that you can pass via XComs (pickling is available by setting `AIRFLOW__CORE__ENABLE_XCOM_PICKLING=True` but has [known security implications](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html)). A custom XCom backend allows you to implement your own serialization and deserialization methods.
```

- Having a custom setup where access to XComs is needed without accessing the metadata database. 

## Overriding additional BaseXCom methods

> In this tutorial we've show how to add custom logic to the `.serialize_value()` and  `.deserialize_value()` methods. If you want to further expand the functionality for your custom XComs backend you can override additional methods of the [XCom module](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/xcom/index.html) ([source code](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/models/xcom.py)). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we've shown how to add custom logic to the `.serialize_value()` and  `.deserialize_value()` methods. If you want to further expand the functionality for your custom XCom backend, you can override additional methods of the [XCom module](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/xcom/index.html) ([source code](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/models/xcom.py)). 
```

> A common use case is to want to remove stored XComs upon clearing and rerunning a task in both the Airflow metadata database and the custom XComs backend. To do so the `.clear()` method needs to be overridden to include the removal of the referenced XCom in the custom XComs backend. The code below shows an example of a `.clear()` method that includes the deletion of an XCom stored in a custom S3 backend with the S3XComBackendJSON XComs backend from [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization) of the tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A common use case for this is removing stored XComs upon clearing and rerunning a task in both the Airflow metadata database and the custom XCom backend. To do so, the `.clear()` method needs to be overridden to include the removal of the referenced XCom in the custom XCom backend. The code below shows an example of a `.clear()` method that includes the deletion of an XCom stored in a custom S3 backend with the S3XComBackendJSON XComs backend from [Step 4](#step-4-define-a-custom-xcom-class-using-json-serialization) of the tutorial.
```

            dag_id=dag_id,
            task_id=task_id,
            run_id=run_id,
            map_index=map_index
        ).scalar()
    else:
        reference_string = session.query(cls.value).filter_by(
            dag_id=dag_id,
            task_id=task_id,
            run_id=run_id
        ).scalar()

    if reference_string is not None:

        # decode the XComs binary to UTF-8
        reference_string = reference_string.decode('utf-8')
        
        hook = S3Hook(aws_conn_id="s3_xcom_backend_conn")
        key = reference_string.replace(S3XComBackendJSON.PREFIX, '')

        # use the reference string to delete the object from the S3 bucket
        hook.delete_objects(
            bucket=S3XComBackendJSON.BUCKET_NAME,
            keys=json.loads(key)
        )

    # retrieve the XCom record from the metadata database containing the reference string
    query = session.query(cls).filter_by(
        dag_id=dag_id,
        task_id=task_id,
        run_id=run_id
    )
    if map_index is not None:
        query = query.filter_by(map_index=map_index)

    # delete the XComs containing the reference string from metadata database
    query.delete()
```

## Conclusion

> Congratulations! You learned how to set up a custom XComs backend and how to define your own serialization and deserialization methods. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You learned how to set up a custom XCom backend and how to define your own serialization and deserialization methods. 
```
